docs: update readme.md with overview and custom validation sections (#243)
asyncapi/spec-json-schemas: README.md

![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@asyncapi/specs?style=for-the-badge) ![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@asyncapi/specs?style=for-the-badge)

> If you are currently using version 2, check out [migration guideline to version 3](./migrations/Migrate%20to%20version%203.md). You might be able to update it without any change.
# AsyncAPI

This is a mono repository, which provides all the JSON Schema documents for validating AsyncAPI documents.

## Overview

> *  This repository contains [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/ for reference) files for all the versions of AsyncAPI specification.

Reviewer: I always recommend to check the preview of the markdown and trying to click links, this one is a broken link

```suggestion
*  This repository contains [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org) files for all the versions of AsyncAPI specification.
```

Author: Noted.Let me check on the suggestions. Thanks

* These JSON Schema files do not reflect 1:1 the specification and shouldn't be treated as specification itself but rather as a tool for things like validation e.t.c
* These JSON Schema files shouldn't be used as the only tool for validating AsyncAPI documents because some rules described in the AsyncAPI specification are not described with JSON Schema.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In addition, this repo provides JavaScript and Go modules that make it easier to access JSON Schema files through code.
```

Author: Hi. Just worked on the suggestions. Please review. Thanks

 
 The following additional custom validations need to be provided:
* Validate if variables provided in the url property have corresponding variable object defined and if the example is correct
* Validate if operationIds are duplicated in the document
* Validate if messageIds are duplicated in the document
* Validate if server security is declared properly and the name has a corresponding server     securitySchemes definition in components with the same name
* Validate if given server securitySchemes is a proper empty array when security type requires it
* Validate if parameters specified in the channel name have corresponding parameters object defined and if name does not contain url parameters.
* Validate if all servers listed for a channel in servers property are declared in the top-level servers object.
* Validate if tags specified in the objects have no duplicates. Check is done for: root, operations, operation traits, channels, messages and message traits.
* At the moment, AsyncAPI JavaScript parser do not cover all validation cases yet

> * All test cases and parsers coverage can be found [here](https://asyncapi.github.io/tck/)

Reviewer: this should not be part of bullet list of custom validations cases. There should be a separate paragraph below the bullet list

> 

Reviewer: some not needed empty spaces

![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@asyncapi/specs?style=for-the-badge) ![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@asyncapi/specs?style=for-the-badge)

> If you are currently using version 2, check out [migration guideline to version 3](./migrations/Migrate%20to%20version%203.md). You might be able to update it without any change.
# AsyncAPI

This is a mono repository, which provides all the JSON Schema documents for validating AsyncAPI documents.

## Overview
* This repository contains [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org) files for all the versions of AsyncAPI specification.

> * These JSON Schema files do not reflect 1:1 the specification and shouldn't be treated as specification itself but rather as a tool for things like validation e.t.c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * These JSON Schema files do not reflect 1:1 the specification and shouldn't be treated as specification itself but rather as a tool for things like validation e.t.c
```

> * These JSON Schema files shouldn't be used as the only tool for validating AsyncAPI documents because some rules described in the AsyncAPI specification are not described with JSON Schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * These JSON Schema files shouldn't be used as the only tool for validating AsyncAPI documents because some rules described in the AsyncAPI specification are not described with JSON Schema.
```

* It's recommended to use [AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) that not only uses AsyncAPI JSON Schema file for validation but also implements additional custom validations.
 
 The following additional custom validations need to be provided:
* Validate if variables provided in the url property have corresponding variable object defined and if the example is correct
* Validate if operationIds are duplicated in the document
* Validate if messageIds are duplicated in the document
* Validate if server security is declared properly and the name has a corresponding server     securitySchemes definition in components with the same name
* Validate if given server securitySchemes is a proper empty array when security type requires it
* Validate if parameters specified in the channel name have corresponding parameters object defined and if name does not contain url parameters.
* Validate if all servers listed for a channel in servers property are declared in the top-level servers object.
* Validate if tags specified in the objects have no duplicates. Check is done for: root, operations, operation traits, channels, messages and message traits.

> * At the moment, AsyncAPI JavaScript parser do not cover all validation cases yet

Reviewer: this also should not be a bullet list element as it is not one of custom validations that user have to provide

Reviewer: @Dindihub I think you missed this comment, line 24 should not be part of bullet list

Author: Done. Sorry missed that one. Thnaks

* It's recommended to use [AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) that not only uses AsyncAPI JSON Schema file for validation but also implements additional custom validations.
 
 The following additional custom validations need to be provided:
* Validate if variables provided in the url property have corresponding variable object defined and if the example is correct
* Validate if operationIds are duplicated in the document
* Validate if messageIds are duplicated in the document
* Validate if server security is declared properly and the name has a corresponding server     securitySchemes definition in components with the same name
* Validate if given server securitySchemes is a proper empty array when security type requires it
* Validate if parameters specified in the channel name have corresponding parameters object defined and if name does not contain url parameters.
* Validate if all servers listed for a channel in servers property are declared in the top-level servers object.

> * Validate if tags specified in the objects have no duplicates. Check is done for: root, operations, operation traits, channels, messages and message traits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Tags specified in any object have no duplicates. Check must be done for: the top-level object, operations (publish and subscribe), operation traits, channels, messages, and message traits.
```

       ]
    }
    ```

## Overview

> * This repository contains JSON Schema files for all the versions of AsyncAPI specification. You can link to https://json-schema.org/ for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This repository contains [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/ for reference) files for all the versions of AsyncAPI specification.
```

* These JSON Schema files do not reflect 1:1 the specification and shouldn't be treated as specification itself but rather as a tool for things like validation e.t.c

> * These JSON Schema files should'nt be used as the only tool for validation of AsyncAPI documents because some rules described in the AsyncAPI specification are not described here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* These JSON Schema files shouldn't be used as the only tool for validating AsyncAPI documents because some rules described in the AsyncAPI specification are not described with JSON Schema.
```

## Custom Validation Needs

> * The JSON Schema does not cover all validation cases, and if a user decides to validate AsyncAPI tools with only JSON Schema provided in this repo, they risk having the AsyncAPI documents not working in tandem with all AsyncAPI tools and this will affect validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The JSON Schema does not cover all validation cases, and if you decide to validate AsyncAPI tools with only JSON Schema provided in this repo, you risk having the AsyncAPI documents not working in tandem with all AsyncAPI tools, and this will affect validation.
```

> * It's recommended to use the custom validation tool provided at https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js as we look on implementing a comprehensive validation tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It's recommended to use [AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) that not only uses AsyncAPI JSON Schema file for validation but also implements additional custom validations.
```

 
* The following additional custom validations need to be provided:

>     1. Validate if variables provided in the url property have corresponding variable object defined and if the example is correct

Reviewer: this should be the bullet list as the order doesn't matter.

ordering by number should be used only if the order makes a difference

    2. Validate if operationIds are duplicated in the document
    3. Validate if messageIds are duplicated in the document
    4. Validate if server security is declared properly and the name has a corresponding server     securitySchemes definition in components with the same name
    5. Validate if given server securitySchemes is a proper empty array when security type requires it
    6. Validate if parameters specified in the channel name have corresponding parameters object defined and if name does not contain url parameters.
    7. Validate if all servers listed for a channel in servers property are declared in the top-level servers object.
    8. Validate if tags specified in the objects have no duplicates. Check is done for: root, operations, operation traits, channels, messages and message traits.

> * At the moment, Parser-js do not cover all validation cases yet,all test cases and parsers coverage can be found here -> https://asyncapi.github.io/tck/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At the moment, AsyncAPI JavaScript parser do not cover all validation cases yet
* All test cases and parsers coverage can be found [here](https://asyncapi.github.io/tck/)
```

> All names of objects/properties can be double-checked with https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v2.4.0

Reviewer: this was just a note for you in my input, so when you write this readme doc, you use proper names, and put them in code and capitalize them when needed. This is why in my input I for example wrote `operationId` and not operationId. It matters a lot in tech content, because it indicates that it is not just a word to describe something but actually technical term used in technology you describe. 

I hope that makes sense 😅 let me know if you have some doubts
please address this type of `highlighting` in the list of custom validations

Author: Noted. Let me review and make a new PR.

       ]
    }
    ```

> 

Reviewer: some not needed empty spaces

Author: Hi. I have worked on the changes suggested. And thanks for the reference Doc. It helped. Please review.
